The other two pieces I'd like to use the sculpt tools on our this beam here this shortened beam and
also the whole of the ceiling.
So let's work on this beam right now I'm going to go ahead and zoom in and isolate it with the division
key.
And what I want to do is just beat up this end here just a bit so it gets the feeling that it was broken
off.
So what I want to do is add a multi resolution modifier increased the subdivisions a bit here.
Now you notice once again that it's beginning to collapse because we're using Catmull Clark.
I'm going to change it to simple so we can increase the resolution with out the edges rounding off.
So all right maybe I'll even give it one more subdivision and let me go into the sculped tools here.
And I'll go ahead and use the sculped brush here.
The sculped draw and let me just zoom in and see what we can do here.
All hit the F key to reduce the size of the brush and I'll press shift F to increase the strength.
And if I just yeah I think I can do something with this.
I'll cut in.
I'll pull out something like this.
Just so we get a sense that there something kind of broke off of here.
Here we go something like that.
Now I can come in here and maybe I'll use the pinch tool and pinch up some of these edges here so they're
a little bit sharper and I think that should probably do just to give the sense from a distance here
that that's kind of crumbled stone.
All right.
Let's take a look at the other piece.
The hole in the ceiling.
I will select this piece and I'll zoom in a bit and let's do a similar thing here.
So I'm going to go to the sculped mode again.
Use the sculpt draw brush.
I'll add a multi resolution modifier subdivide a bit maybe up to three and change from Catmull Clark
to simple for this one.
I think I'll reduce the size of the brush and maybe just work going up and down here like this.
Maybe I'll need one more subdivision.
And here we go.
And I'll also hold the control key down and cut into it some as well as pushing out.
So my goal here here isn't have it be perfect just to have it be rough and not so smooth.
And we really don't need it all the way around because we're not going to see that part.
I'll spin around and get some of this over here just to make sure we get what we need.
And I'll also do some pushing in and also sculpting around here and going back and forth between just
sculpting and using the control button just kind of going back and forth here.
I may smooth some of that back.
It looks like I did a little too much so I'm going to increase the size of the brush and hold the shift
key down and just smooth it back just a little don't need it quite that much OK.
So I will go back to object mode.
We can increase the views here in Object mode just to see how we're doing.
I'll press shift see
and let's go ahead and take a look at it through the camera here and press the zero key and maybe switch
to rendered view.
And let's see what we have here.
Yes or that kind of gives the sense that there is a little more happening there than just flat polygons
like things have kind of broken off.
Will work.
So that is about all the sculpting I'd like to do for our scene in the final render.
I'm going to have a light coming down through the hole in the ceiling here and we'll also have a light
shining out of his spotlight.
So at the very least I think what I want to do right now is set up a light that's coming down to the
hole in the ceiling and have that be our main source of light.
So to do that I'm going to delete the light plane in this scene here we don't need that anymore.
So just selected and press X and delete.
And what I think I'll do is place a spotlight up here outside the whole shining in.
So I'm going to come down here to the lamp area in the create tab and click spot and then move this
up.
Now we're going to move this up like this.
And I think I'll shine it down in kind of like this kind of angled and shining down into this scene
on to him.
Let me split the screens here.
I'll take this tab.
This corner tab and pull it down.
And I'll press the zero key appear to frame up the actual render camera.
And while this is here I can adjust the light as needed so I'm going to switch the viewport shading
to rendered.
And so you can see our scene here.
We're going to need a little more light on the scene with my spotlight select it I'm going to come over
here to the spotlight panel and under-strength.
I'll try.
I'll switch from a hundred to maybe 1000.
That's a little bit better.
How about 10000.
Let's try that getting there.
Let me try.
Twenty thousand.
See how that works.
Another thing I can do here is move this down and zoom this in a bit.
Another thing I can do is adjust the size of the cone.
Angle here.
So I right down here under the spot shape I can increase or decrease the size of the lamp.
So I just want to kind of spotlight the Mac as it comes down into this scene as the light comes through
the hole here.
So the light is looking pretty good there but I feel like we need a little bit more light in the scene
if I come over here to the world panel.
I can turn on ambient inclusion and that's a bit too much so let's try point one for the ambient occlusion.
OK.
How about point 0 5 something like that.
Something very low just to give us a little bit of extra light in the scene.
I'm going to join these two windows by right clicking between them and clicking join and then click
down here.
All right so that's I think a rough approximation of what I would like the scene to look like.